= rails-doorman

+rails-doorman+ is an authorization plugin for Ruby on Rails applications. This code was orignally written by Michael D. Ivey for Merb.

== Configuration

Doorman expects the controller to respond to +current_user+

The +:role+ option expects +current_user+ to respond to +has_role?(role_name)+. To change the default assign the option a new value:

  Doorman.options[:has_role_method]

The +:user+ option expects +current_user+ to respond to +login+. To change the default assign the option a new value:

  Doorman.options[:user_identifier_method]

== Usage

=== Controllers

  class Admin::ArticlesController < AdminController
    allow :role => :admin
  end

  allow :role => :admin                         # current_user.has_role?(:admin)
  deny :role => :troll 
  allow :role => :admin, :exclude => :show
  allow :role => :troll, :only => :index

+rails-doorman+ supports more than roles.

  allow :user => :nancy                     # current_user.login.to_sym == 'nancy'.to_sym
  allow :host => 'allowed.example.org'      # request.host =~ Regexp.new('allowed.example.org')
  deny :host => 'denied.example.org'
  deny :user_agent => /MSIE/                # request.user_agent =~ Regexp.new(/MSIE/)

=== Views

All rules can be used in views.

  <% allow(:role => :admin) do %>
    <h1>Allowed</h1>
  <% end %>

  <% deny(:role => :troll) do %>
    <h1>Allowed</h1>
  <% end %>

=== Unauthorized

When a rule fails a Doorman::Unauthorized error is raised. The error
can be caught in ApplicationController#rescue_action_in_public.

  class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
    private
    def rescue_action_in_public(exception)
      case exception
      when Doorman::InvalidRule
        render :text => 'Invalid Rule', :status => '500 Internal Server Error'
      when Doorman::Unauthorized
        render :text => 'Unauthorized', :status => '401 Unauthorized'
      else
        super(exception)
      end
    end
  end

== Resources

Development

* http://github.com/jrun/rails-doorman

Source

* git://github.com/jrun/rails-doorman.git

Bugs

* http://github.com/jrun/rails-doorman/issues


== TODO

=== Rule inheritance

Controller subclasses do not inherit its parents rules. This is more
like a bug than a todo.

===  More configurable

+rails-doorman+ should be configurable but in what ways?


